Biotechnology Progress

Immobilized Yeast Bioreactor Systems for Continuous Beer Fermentation

Authors: Murthy Tata, Patricia Bower, Susan Bromberg, Dick Duncombe,
Jeff Fehring, Vera Lau, David Ryder, Paul Stassi

First published: 1999
DOI: 10.1021/bp980109z

Abstract
Two different types of immobilized yeast bioreactors were examined for
continuous fermentation of high-gravity worts. One of these is a fluidized bed
reactor (FBR) that employs porous glass beads for yeast immobilization. The
second system is a loop reactor containing a porous silicon carbide cartridge
(SCCR) for immobilizing the yeast cells. Although there was some residual
fermentable sugar in the SCCR system product, nearly complete attenuation of
the wort sugars was achieved in either of the systems when operated as a
two-stage process. Fermentation could be completed in these systems in only
half the time required for a conventional batch process. Both the systems
showed similar kinetics of extract consumption, and therefore similar
volumetric productivity. As compared to the batch fermentation, total fusel
alcohols were lower; total esters, while variable, were generally higher. The
yeast biomass production was similar to that in a conventional fermentation
process. As would be expected in an accelerated fermentation system, the levels
of vicinal diketones (VDKs) were higher. To remove the VDKs, the young beer was
heat-treated to convert the VDK precursors and processed through a packed bed
immobilized yeast bioreactor for VDK assimilation. The finished product from
the FBR system was found to be quite acceptable from a flavor perspective,
albeit different from the product from a conventional batch process.
Significantly shortened fermentation times demonstrate the feasibility of this
technology for beer production.
